# identifyNDBuildings
Task: analyze pictures taken from ND buildings, and identify the name of the building

For my semester project, I have decided to do project 2, which is the “where am I? identification of ND campus buildings” project. For this project, I will create an application that can recognize and identify (some) ND Campus buildings. The application will be able to analyze pictures taken from ND buildings, and identify the name of the building. Ideally, the application will be implemented to run on mobile devices, but alternatively, it can run on a computer with pictures from a mobile phone. In addition, I might make my application show the location of the building on a map. 

In regards to my dataset, I will most likely select three to five buildings and collect twenty to thirty images at different angles and distances. I will be working by myself for this project. For this project, I will use convolutional neural networks. For this project, I think I will need to detect the object (specifically where it is) in the frame. In fact, there are specific features about the objects or buildings that I am detecting that I would like to use (color, shape, “key points” that are very specific to the buildings). It’s possible my solution might need to be agnostic to color or brick color because many of the buildings on campus have the same brick pattern (McCourtney Hall and Dunne Hall). However, some of the buildings have different colors or brick patterns (such as Jordan Hall of Science compared to South Dining Hall). I think the kind of features that would need to be calculated are the features that are common in all buildings maybe (such as door, window, brick pattern, height of building, shape). 

For this project, I might use a deep learning framework, based on convolutional neural networks, which will automatically construct highly descriptive features directly from raw data. In regards to the data, I will need to split up my dataset into three subsets: training, validation, and final testing. I will use the training set to find the best solution (parameters of feature extraction and classification). Then, I will use the validation set to check how this interim solution works on new data not used in the training (preventing the classifier from overfitting). Finally, I will use the “unknown” untouched test subset to evaluate my final solution. 
